.Dd December 6, 2025
.Dt bastille-config 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille config
.Nd Get, set, add or remove properties from jail(s).
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl x
.Cm set|add
.Ar PROPERTY
.Op VALUE
.Nm
.Op Fl x
.Cm get|remove
.Ar PROPERTY
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
sub-command will modify targeted jail(s) configuration and
get, set, add or remove properties.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy bastille config Oo Fl x Oc Sy set|add Ar PROPERTY Op VALUE
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy set
Set the value of the specified property from the jail configuration.
If the property is not set, it will be added and set.
.It Sy add
Same as set.
.It Fl x , Fl -debug
Enable debug mode.
.El
.Pp
It is not always necesary to set a
.Ar VALUE
for a
.Ar PROPERTY .
For example, 'allow.mlock=1' is the same as 'allow.mlock'.
.It Sy bastille config Oo Fl x Oc Sy get|remove Ar PROPERTY
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy get
Get the value of the specified
.Ar PROPERTY
from the jail configuration. If a property is not present, 'not
enabled' will be shown. If the property has no value, but
is present, 'enabled' will be returned. Otherwise you will be
shown the value.
.It Sy remove
Remove the specified
.Ar PROPERTY
from the jail configuration.
.It Fl x , -debug
Enable debug mode.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Set allow.mlock inside myjail:
.Sy bastille config myjail set allow.mlock 1
.It Set to priority value of myjail:
.Sy bastille config myjail set priority 10
.It Set the boot value:
.Sy bastille config myjail set boot off
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 5 ,
.Xr bastille-bootstrap 8 ,
.Xr bastille-clone 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cmd 8 ,
.Xr bastille-console 8 ,
.Xr bastille-convert 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-create 8 ,
.Xr bastille-destroy 8 ,
.Xr bastille-edit 8 ,
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-export 8 ,
.Xr bastille-htop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-import 8 ,
.Xr bastille-jcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-limits 8 ,
.Xr bastille-list 8 ,
.Xr bastille-migrate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-monitor 8 ,
.Xr bastille-mount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-network 8 ,
.Xr bastille-pkg 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rdr 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rename 8 ,
.Xr bastille-restart 8 ,
.Xr bastille-service 8 ,
.Xr bastille-setup 8 ,
.Xr bastille-start 8 ,
.Xr bastille-stop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-sysrc 8 ,
.Xr bastille-tags 8 ,
.Xr bastille-template 8 ,
.Xr bastille-top 8 ,
.Xr bastille-umount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-update 8 ,
.Xr bastille-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr bastille-verify 8 ,
.Xr bastille-zfs 8
