.Dd 2025/12/04
.Dt bastille 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille
.Nd open-source jail automation and management tool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl vh
.Op Fl c Ar file
.Ar COMMAND
.Op option(s)
.Ar TARGET
.Ar ARGS
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Bastille is an open-source system for automating deployment
and management of containerized applications on FreeBSD
using the jail framework.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar file , Fl -config Ar file
Specify a non-default config file to use. Must be placed
inside the Bastille config directory.
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Display usage information. This option is also available for each
sub-command, though they are not listed in the man pages.
.It Fl v , Fl -version
Print version information.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy bootstrap
Bootstrap a release or template(s).
.It Sy clone
Clone an existing jail.
.It Sy cmd
Execute command(s) inside jail(s).
.It Sy config
Get, set, add or remove properties from jail(s).
.It Sy console
Console into a jail.
.It Sy convert
Convert a jail from thin to thick; convert a jail to a custom release.
.It Sy cp
Copy file(s)/directorie(s) from host to jail(s).
.It Sy create
Create a jail.
.It Sy destroy
Destroy jail(s) or release(s).
.It Sy edit
Edit jail configuration files (advanced).
.It Sy etcupdate
Update /etc for jail(s).
.It Sy export
Export a jail.
.It Sy help
Help for any command.
.It Sy htop
Interactive process viewer (requires htop).
.It Sy import
Import a jail.
.It Sy jcp
Copy file(s)/directorie(s) from jail to jail(s).
.It Sy limits
Apply resources limits to jail(s). See
.Xr rctl 8
and
.Xr cpuset 1 .
.It Sy list
List jails, releases, templates and more...
.It Sy migrate
Migrate jail(s) to a remote system.
.It Sy monitor
Monitor and attempt to restart jail service(s).
.It Sy mount
Mount files(s)/directorie(s) inside jail(s).
.It Sy network
Add or remove interface(s) from jail(s).
.It Sy pkg
Manage packages inside jail(s). See
.Xr pkg 8 .
.It Sy rcp
Copy file(s)/directorie(s) from jail to host.
.It Sy rdr
Redirect host port to jail port.
.It Sy rename
Rename a jail.
.It Sy restart
Restart a jail.
.It Sy service
Manage services within jail(s).
.It Sy setup
Auto-configure network, firewall, storage and more...
.It Sy start
Start stopped jail(s).
.It Sy stop
Stop running jail(s).
.It Sy sysrc
Edit rc files inside jail(s).
.It Sy tags
Add or remove tags to jail(s).
.It Sy template
Apply templates to jail(s).
.It Sy top
Process viewer. See
.Xr top 1 .
.It Sy umount
Unmount file(s)/directorie(s) from jail(s).
.It Sy update
Update a jail or release.
.It Sy upgrade
Upgrade a jail to new release.
.It Sy verify
Compare release against a "known good" index.
.It Sy zfs
Manage ZFS options/attributes for jail(s).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 5 ,
.Xr bastille-bootstrap 8 ,
.Xr bastille-clone 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cmd 8 ,
.Xr bastille-config 8 ,
.Xr bastille-console 8 ,
.Xr bastille-convert 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-create 8 ,
.Xr bastille-destroy 8 ,
.Xr bastille-edit 8 ,
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-export 8 ,
.Xr bastille-htop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-import 8 ,
.Xr bastille-jcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-limits 8 ,
.Xr bastille-list 8 ,
.Xr bastille-migrate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-monitor 8 ,
.Xr bastille-mount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-network 8 ,
.Xr bastille-pkg 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rdr 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rename 8 ,
.Xr bastille-restart 8 ,
.Xr bastille-service 8 ,
.Xr bastille-setup 8 ,
.Xr bastille-start 8 ,
.Xr bastille-stop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-sysrc 8 ,
.Xr bastille-tags 8 ,
.Xr bastille-template 8 ,
.Xr bastille-top 8 ,
.Xr bastille-umount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-update 8 ,
.Xr bastille-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr bastille-verify 8 ,
.Xr bastille-zfs 8
.Sh BUGS
Please report any bugs on Github
.Nm https://github.com/BastilleBSD/bastille/issues
