.Dd 2025/12/06
.Dt bastille-export 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille export
.Nd Export a jail. 
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl alvx
.Op Fl -gz
.Op Fl -xz
.Op Fl -zst
.Op Fl -raw
.Op Fl -tgz
.Op Fl -txz
.Op Fl -tzst
.Ar TARGET Op PATH
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
sub-command will export
.Ar TARGET
to an image (ZFS) or archive.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a , Fl -auto
Auto mode. Start/stop jail(s) if required.
.It Fl l , Fl -live
Export a running jail (ZFS only).
.Pp
Normally jails must be stopped to export them. Set this option
to allow exporting a hot/running jail.
.It Fl -gz
Export to a '.gz' compressed image (ZFS only).
.It Fl -xz
Export to a '.xz' compressed image (ZFS only).
.It Fl -zst
Export to a '.zst' compressed image (ZFS only).
.It Fl -raw
Export a an uncompressed RAW image (ZFS only).
.It Fl -tgz
Export to a '.tgz' compressed archive.
.It Fl -txz
Export to a '.txz' compressed archive.
.It Fl -tzst
Export to a '.tzst' compressed archive.
.It Fl v , Fl -verbose
Enable verbose mode (ZFS only).
.It Fl x , Fl -debug
Enable debug mode.
.El
.Pp
If no
.Ar PATH
is specified, the jail will be exported to the backups directory.
See
.Xr bastille.conf 5 .
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Export my jail as a '.tzst' archive:
.Sy bastille export --tzst myjail
.It Export myjail to $PWD as a '.gz' image:
.Sy bastille export --gz myjail $PWD
.It Export myjail (while running) as a '.xz' image:
.Sy bastille export -l --xz myjail
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 5 ,
.Xr bastille-bootstrap 8 ,
.Xr bastille-clone 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cmd 8 ,
.Xr bastille-config 8 ,
.Xr bastille-console 8 ,
.Xr bastille-convert 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-create 8 ,
.Xr bastille-destroy 8 ,
.Xr bastille-edit 8 ,
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-htop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-import 8 ,
.Xr bastille-jcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-limits 8 ,
.Xr bastille-list 8 ,
.Xr bastille-migrate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-monitor 8 ,
.Xr bastille-mount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-network 8 ,
.Xr bastille-pkg 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rdr 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rename 8 ,
.Xr bastille-restart 8 ,
.Xr bastille-service 8 ,
.Xr bastille-setup 8 ,
.Xr bastille-start 8 ,
.Xr bastille-stop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-sysrc 8 ,
.Xr bastille-tags 8 ,
.Xr bastille-template 8 ,
.Xr bastille-top 8 ,
.Xr bastille-umount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-update 8 ,
.Xr bastille-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr bastille-verify 8 ,
.Xr bastille-zfs 8