.Dd 2025/12/06
.Dt bastille-list 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille list
.Nd List jails, releases, templates and more...
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl djpux
.Oo all|backup|export|import|ip|jail
limit|log|path|port|priority|snapshot|state|template|type
.Oc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
sub-command will list any of the above contents for you.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy bastille list Oo Fl djpux Oc Oo all|backup|export|import|ip|jail
limit|log|path|port|priority|snapshot|state|template|type
.Oc
.It Sy all
Deprecated. List jails in old Bastille format.
.It Sy backup|export|import
List jail backups in the backups directory.
.It Sy ip
List only the IP addresses of jails.
.It Sy jail
Print all jail names.
.It Sy limit
List all limits for all jails.
.It Sy log
List Bastille logs.
.It Sy path
List only the paths of jails.
.It Sy port
List only the published ports of jails.
.It Sy priority
List only the priority of jails.
.It Sy snapshot
List snapshots for all jails.
.It Sy state
List only the states of jails. Up or Down.
.It Sy template
List all templates in the templates directory.
.It Sy type
List only the jail type of jails.
.It Fl d , Fl -down
List stopped jails only.
.It Fl j , Fl -json
List jails or sub-arg(s) in json format.
.It Fl p , Fl -pretty
Print JSON in columns.
.It Fl u , Fl -up
List running jails only.
.It Fl x , Fl -debug
Enable debug mode.
.El
.Pp
By default, the
.Nm
sub-command will display a list of jails and some important info
if called without any arguments. Use a combination of the above
options and sub-args to achieve the desired outcome based on what
information you want to see.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It List default info:
.Sy bastille list
.It List all releases:
.Sy bastille list releases
.It List running jails by type in pretty json columns:
.Sy bastille list -jup type
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 5 ,
.Xr bastille-bootstrap 8 ,
.Xr bastille-clone 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cmd 8 ,
.Xr bastille-config 8 ,
.Xr bastille-console 8 ,
.Xr bastille-convert 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-create 8 ,
.Xr bastille-destroy 8 ,
.Xr bastille-edit 8 ,
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-export 8 ,
.Xr bastille-htop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-import 8 ,
.Xr bastille-jcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-limits 8 ,
.Xr bastille-migrate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-monitor 8 ,
.Xr bastille-mount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-network 8 ,
.Xr bastille-pkg 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rdr 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rename 8 ,
.Xr bastille-restart 8 ,
.Xr bastille-service 8 ,
.Xr bastille-setup 8 ,
.Xr bastille-start 8 ,
.Xr bastille-stop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-sysrc 8 ,
.Xr bastille-tags 8 ,
.Xr bastille-template 8 ,
.Xr bastille-top 8 ,
.Xr bastille-umount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-update 8 ,
.Xr bastille-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr bastille-verify 8 ,
.Xr bastille-zfs 8