.Dd December 6, 2025
.Dt bastille-upgrade 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille upgrade
.Nd Upgrade a jail to new release.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl afx
.Ar TARGET NEW_RELEASE
.Nm
.Op Fl afx
.Ar TARGET install
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
sub-command will upgrade
.Ar TARGET
to
.Ar NEW_RELEASE .
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a , Fl -auto
Auto mode. Start/stop jail(s) if required.
.It Fl f , Fl -force
Force upgrade a release (FreeBSD legacy releases).
.Pp
This will force the 'fetch' command to proceed in the
event of a previous failed upgrade.
.It Fl x , -debug
Enable debug mode.
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar install
option is needed to upgrade a FreeBSD jail not running
PkgBase. It is run after the initial 'upgrade' command is
completed.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Upgrade myjail to 15.0-RELEASE:
.Sy bastille upgrade myjail 15.0-RELEASE
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 5 ,
.Xr bastille-bootstrap 8 ,
.Xr bastille-clone 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cmd 8 ,
.Xr bastille-config 8 ,
.Xr bastille-console 8 ,
.Xr bastille-convert 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-create 8 ,
.Xr bastille-destroy 8 ,
.Xr bastille-edit 8 ,
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-export 8 ,
.Xr bastille-htop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-import 8 ,
.Xr bastille-jcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-limits 8 ,
.Xr bastille-list 8 ,
.Xr bastille-migrate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-monitor 8 ,
.Xr bastille-mount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-network 8 ,
.Xr bastille-pkg 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rdr 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rename 8 ,
.Xr bastille-restart 8 ,
.Xr bastille-service 8 ,
.Xr bastille-setup 8 ,
.Xr bastille-start 8 ,
.Xr bastille-stop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-sysrc 8 ,
.Xr bastille-tags 8 ,
.Xr bastille-template ,
.Xr bastille-top 8 ,
.Xr bastille-umount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-update 8 ,
.Xr bastille-verify 8 ,
.Xr bastille-zfs 8
