.Dd December 6, 2025
.Dt bastille-bootstrap 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille bootstrap
.Nd Bootstrap a release or template(s). 
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl pux
.Ar RELEASE
.Op ARCH
.Nm
.Op Fl x
.Ar TEMPLATE
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
sub-command will bootstrap a release to use when creating jails. It will
also fetch and verify templates if a url is given as an arguement.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy bastille bootstrap Oo Fl pux Oc Ar RELEASE Op ARCH
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl p , Fl -pkgbase
Bootstrap using pkgbase (FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE and above). Bastille uses
distribution sets by default, but this option enables the use of
package sets when bootstrapping FreeBSD release.
.It Fl u , Fl -update
Update the release after bootstrap.
.It Fl x , Fl -debug
Enable debug mode.
.Pp
If
.Ar ARCH
is specified, it will be used to bootstrap, as
opposed to using the hosts arch.
.El
.It Sy bastille bootstrap Oo Fl x Oc Ar TEMPLATE
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl x , Fl -debug
Enable debug mode.
.Pp
.Ar TEMPLATE
should be a url containing either a single template, or multiple
templates.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Bootstrap 15.0-RELEASE:
.Sy bastille bootstrap 15.0-RELEASE
.It Bootstrap official BastilleBSD templates:
.Sy bastille bootstrap https://github.com/BastilleBSD/templates
.It Bootstrap 15.0-RELEASE using PkgBase:
.Sy bastille bootstrap -p 15.0-RELEASE
.It Bootstrap 15.0-RELEASE using i386 as the arch:
.Sy bastille bootstrap 15.0-RELEASE --i386
.It Bootstrap the official BastilleBSD template collection:
.Sy bastille bootstrap https://github.com/BastilleBSD/templates
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 5 ,
.Xr bastille-clone 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cmd 8 ,
.Xr bastille-config 8 ,
.Xr bastille-console 8 ,
.Xr bastille-convert 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-create 8 ,
.Xr bastille-destroy 8 ,
.Xr bastille-edit 8 ,
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-export 8 ,
.Xr bastille-htop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-import 8 ,
.Xr bastille-jcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-limits 8 ,
.Xr bastille-list 8 ,
.Xr bastille-migrate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-monitor 8 ,
.Xr bastille-mount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-network 8 ,
.Xr bastille-pkg 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rdr 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rename 8 ,
.Xr bastille-restart 8 ,
.Xr bastille-service 8 ,
.Xr bastille-setup 8 ,
.Xr bastille-start 8 ,
.Xr bastille-stop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-sysrc 8 ,
.Xr bastille-tags 8 ,
.Xr bastille-template 8 ,
.Xr bastille-top 8 ,
.Xr bastille-umount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-update 8 ,
.Xr bastille-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr bastille-verify 8 ,
.Xr bastille-zfs 8
