.Dd December 6, 2025
.Dt bastille-pkg 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille pkg
.Nd Manage packages inside jail(s). See
.Xr pkg 8 .
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl aHyx
.Ar TARGET ARGS
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
sub-command allows package management inside jails.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a , Fl -auto
Auto mode. Start/stop jail(s) if required.
.It Fl H , Fl -host
Use host 'pkg' binary instead of jails.
.It Fl y , Fl -yes
Do not prompt. Assume always yes.
.It Fl x , Fl -debug
Enable debug mode.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Install nginx inside myjail:
.Sy bastille pkg myjail install nginx
.It Install nginx inside myjail using the hosts 'pkg':
.Sy bastille pkg -H myjail install nginx
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 5 ,
.Xr bastille-bootstrap 8 ,
.Xr bastille-clone 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cmd 8 ,
.Xr bastille-config 8 ,
.Xr bastille-console 8 ,
.Xr bastille-convert 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-create 8 ,
.Xr bastille-destroy 8 ,
.Xr bastille-edit 8 ,
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-export 8 ,
.Xr bastille-htop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-import 8 ,
.Xr bastille-jcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-limits 8 ,
.Xr bastille-list 8 ,
.Xr bastille-migrate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-monitor 8 ,
.Xr bastille-mount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-pkg 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rdr 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rename 8 ,
.Xr bastille-restart 8 ,
.Xr bastille-service 8 ,
.Xr bastille-setup 8 ,
.Xr bastille-start 8 ,
.Xr bastille-stop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-sysrc 8 ,
.Xr bastille-tags 8 ,
.Xr bastille-template 8 ,
.Xr bastille-top 8 ,
.Xr bastille-umount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-update 8 ,
.Xr bastille-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr bastille-verify 8 ,
.Xr bastille-zfs 8
