.Dd 2025/12/06
.Dt bastille-import 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille import
.Nd Import a jail. 
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl fMvx
.Ar TARGET
.Op RELEASE
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
sub-command will attempt to import a jail from an image or archive.
Bastille supports importing jails from other jail managers such
as iocage, ezjail and qjail.
.Pp
For most foreign jail imports, Bastille will convert the config syntax
into Bastille readable format, but sometimes it might be necessary
to edit the
.Pa jail.conf
file manually.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f , Fl -force
Force an archive import without validation checksum.
.It Fl M , Fl -static-mac
Use a static/persistent MAC address (VNET only) when importing foreign jails.
.It Fl v , Fl -verbose
Enable verbose mode (ZFS only).
.It Fl x , Fl -debug
Enable debug mode.
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar FILE
arguement should be the full filename, including the absolute path.
The only exception is if the archive is inside the backups directory.
See
.Xr bastille.conf 5 .
.Pp
If the
.Ar RELEASE
argument is specified, Bastille will import the jail using that release.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Import myjail_DATE.txz:
.Sy bastille import myjail_DATE.txz
.It Import myjail_DATE.gz under 15.0-RELEASE:
.Sy bastille import myjail_DATE.txz 15.0-RELEASE
.It Import myjail_DATE.gz under 15.0-RELEASE from non-default location:
.Sy bastille import /my/custom/folder/myjail_DATE.txz 15.0-RELEASE
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 5 ,
.Xr bastille-bootstrap 8 ,
.Xr bastille-clone 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cmd 8 ,
.Xr bastille-config 8 ,
.Xr bastille-console 8 ,
.Xr bastille-convert 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-create 8 ,
.Xr bastille-destroy 8 ,
.Xr bastille-edit 8 ,
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-export 8 ,
.Xr bastille-htop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-jcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-limits 8 ,
.Xr bastille-list 8 ,
.Xr bastille-migrate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-monitor 8 ,
.Xr bastille-mount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-network 8 ,
.Xr bastille-pkg 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rdr 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rename 8 ,
.Xr bastille-restart 8 ,
.Xr bastille-service 8 ,
.Xr bastille-setup 8 ,
.Xr bastille-start 8 ,
.Xr bastille-stop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-sysrc 8 ,
.Xr bastille-tags 8 ,
.Xr bastille-template 8 ,
.Xr bastille-top 8 ,
.Xr bastille-umount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-update 8 ,
.Xr bastille-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr bastille-verify 8 ,
.Xr bastille-zfs 8