.Dd 2025/12/06
.Dt bastille-convert 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille convert
.Nd Convert a jail from thin to thick; convert a jail to a custom release.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl ayx
.Ar TARGET
.Nm
.Op Fl ax
.Ar TARGET RELEASE
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
sub-command will convert a thin jail to a thick jail if only the
.Ar TARGET
argument is given. If a
.Ar TARGET
and
.Ar RELEASE
is specified, it will convert the jail
(must be a thick jail) into a custom release. The jail will remain intact,
and you will have a duplicate of it to use a a release base for
any new jails.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy bastille convert Oo Fl ayx Oc Ar TARGET
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a , -auto
Auto mode. Start/stop jail(s) if required.
.It Fl y , -yes
Do not prompt. Assume always yes.
.It Fl x , -debug
Enable debug mode.
.Pp
Converting a thin jail to a thick jail is not reversible. You will
be be prompted to accept this action if [-y|--yes] is not specified.
.El
.It Sy bastille convert Oo Fl ayx Oc Ar TARGET RELEASE
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a , -auto
Auto mode. Start/stop jail(s) if requried.
.It Fl x , -debug
Enable debug mode.
.Pp
A release created by this method is stored in the releases directory, and
can be used to create jails with the '--no-validate' flag. See
.Xr bastille-create 8 .
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Convert myjail from thin to thick:
.Sy bastille convert myjail
.It Convert myjail from thin to thick (no prompts):
.Sy bastille convert -ay myjail
.It Create myrelease from myjail:
.Sy bastille convert myjail myrelease
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 5 ,
.Xr bastille-bootstrap 8 ,
.Xr bastille-clone 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cmd 8 ,
.Xr bastille-config 8 ,
.Xr bastille-console 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-create 8 ,
.Xr bastille-destroy 8 ,
.Xr bastille-edit 8 ,
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-export 8 ,
.Xr bastille-htop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-import 8 ,
.Xr bastille-jcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-limits 8 ,
.Xr bastille-list 8 ,
.Xr bastille-migrate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-monitor 8 ,
.Xr bastille-mount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-network 8 ,
.Xr bastille-pkg 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rdr 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rename 8 ,
.Xr bastille-restart 8 ,
.Xr bastille-service 8 ,
.Xr bastille-setup 8 ,
.Xr bastille-start 8 ,
.Xr bastille-stop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-sysrc 8 ,
.Xr bastille-tags 8 ,
.Xr bastille-template 8 ,
.Xr bastille-top 8 ,
.Xr bastille-umount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-update 8 ,
.Xr bastille-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr bastille-verify 8 ,
.Xr bastille-zfs 8