.Dd December 6, 2025
.Dt bastille-migrate 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille migrate
.Nd Migrate jail(s) to a remote system.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl abdlpx
.Op Fl -doas
.Op Fl k Ar FILE
.Ar TARGET USER@HOST Ns Op :PORT
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
sub-command will migrate a jail to the specified remote host.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a , Fl -auto
Auto mode. Start/stop jail(s) if required.
.It Fl b , Fl -backup
Keep archives on remote system.
.Pp
By default, the archives on the remote system are removed
after migration. Set this option to keep them.
.It Fl d , Fl -destroy
Destroy local jail after migration.
.It Fl -doas
Use 'doas' instead of 'sudo'.
.Pp
The default is sudo.
.It Fl k Ar FILE , Fl -keyfile Ar FILE
Specify an alternative private keyfile name. Must be
in '~/.ssh'.
.It Fl l , Fl -live
Migrate a running jail (ZFS only).
.It Fl p , Fl -password
Use password based authentication.
.Pp
The default is to use SSH keys.
.It Fl x , Fl -debug
Enable debug mode.
.El
.Pp
If no
.Ar PORT
is specified, Bastille will use port 22.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Migrate myjail to a remote system:
.Sy bastille migrate myjail root@10.23.23.23
.It Migrate myjail, while destroying old jail, using port 2222:
.Sy bastille migrate -d myjail root@10.23.23.23:2222
.It Migrate myjail, destroy old, and start new on on remote system:
.Sy bastille migrate -adl myjail root@10.23.23.23
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 5 ,
.Xr bastille-bootstrap 8 ,
.Xr bastille-clone 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cmd 8 ,
.Xr bastille-config 8 ,
.Xr bastille-console 8 ,
.Xr bastille-convert 8 ,
.Xr bastille-cp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-create 8 ,
.Xr bastille-destroy 8 ,
.Xr bastille-edit 8 ,
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 8 ,
.Xr bastille-export 8 ,
.Xr bastille-htop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-import 8 ,
.Xr bastille-jcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-limits 8 ,
.Xr bastille-list 8 ,
.Xr bastille-monitor 8 ,
.Xr bastille-mount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-network 8 ,
.Xr bastille-pkg 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rcp 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rdr 8 ,
.Xr bastille-rename 8 ,
.Xr bastille-restart 8 ,
.Xr bastille-service 8 ,
.Xr bastille-setup 8 ,
.Xr bastille-start 8 ,
.Xr bastille-stop 8 ,
.Xr bastille-sysrc 8 ,
.Xr bastille-tags 8 ,
.Xr bastille-template 8 ,
.Xr bastille-top 8 ,
.Xr bastille-umount 8 ,
.Xr bastille-update 8 ,
.Xr bastille-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr bastille-verify 8 ,
.Xr bastille-zfs 8
