.Dd 2025/12/04
.Dt bastille.conf 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bastille.conf
.Nd configuration file for Bastille
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Nm /usr/local/etc/bastille/bastille.conf
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Bastille has most options preconfigured with sane defaults. These
can be adjusted to fit your environment.
.Sh DEFAULT PATH CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Nm bastille_prefix
This is the main Bastille prefix. All Bastille directories, excluding
.Nm bastille_logsdir
will start with this prefix.
.Pp
If zfs is enabled, this will become the mount point of the zfs dataset.
.Pp
The following directories, excluding
.Nm bastille_logsdir
will be prefixed by
.Nm basatille_prefix .
If zfs is enabled, they will inherit the mount point of
.Nm bastille_prefix .
.It Nm bastille_backupsdir
Bastille will store backups and exports here.
.It Nm bastille_cachedir
Bastille will store cache here.
.It Nm bastille_jailsdir
Bastille will store jails here.
.It Nm bastille_releasesdir
Bastille will store releases here.
.It Nm bastille_templatesdir
Bastille will store templates here.
.It Nm bastille_logsdir
Bastille will store jail console logs here.
.El
.Sh FIREWALL CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Nm bastille_pf_conf
Path to the pf firewall configuration file.
.El
.Sh SHARE DIRECTORY CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Nm bastille_sharedir
This is the path where Bastille expects sub-commands to live at.
.El
.Sh BOOTSTRAP CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Nm bastille_bootstrap_archives
This is a whitespace-separated list of distribution sets to fetch
when bootstrapping a legacy (non-pkgbase) release.
.It Nm bastille_pkgbase_packages
This is a whitespace-separated list of package sets to install
when bootstrapping a release using PkgBase.
.It Nm bastille_url_freebsd
Url from which to fetch legacy distributions sets when bootstrapping
a FreeBSD release.
.It Nm bastille_url_hardenedbsd
Url from which to fetch legacy distributions sets when bootstrapping
a HardenedBSD release.
.It Nm bastille_url_midnightbsd
Url from which to fetch legacy distributions sets when bootstrapping
a MidnightBSD release.
.El
.Sh TIMEZONE CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Nm bastille_tzdata
Set the timezone to apply to newly created jails.
.El
.Sh RESOLV.CONF CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Nm bastille_resolv_conf
This file is copied into newly created jails to allow them
to reach DNS.
.El
.Sh ZFS CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Nm bastille_zfs_enable
Whether to enable or disable zfs support.
.It Nm bastille_zfs_zpool
Which zpool to use when zfs is enabled.
.It Nm bastille_zfs_prefix
Which dataset to use when zfs is enabled. Do not include the zpool
here.
.It Nm bastille_zfs_options
Zfs options to use when creating any and all datasets for any and all
supported actions.




.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bastille.conf 1
.Xr bastille-bootstrap 1
.Xr bastille-clone 1
.Xr bastille-cmd 1
.Xr bastille-config 1
.Xr bastille-console 1
.Xr bastille-convert 1
.Xr bastille-cp 1
.Xr bastille-create 1
.Xr bastille-destroy 1
.Xr bastille-edit 1
.Xr bastille-etcupdate 1
.Xr bastille-export 1
.Xr bastille-htop 1
.Xr bastille-import 1
.Xr bastille-jcp 1
.Xr bastille-limits 1
.Xr bastille-list 1
.Xr bastille-migrate 1
.Xr bastille-mount 1
.Xr bastille-network 1
.Xr bastille-pkg 1
.Xr bastille-rcp 1
.Xr bastille-rdr 1
.Xr bastille-rename 1
.Xr bastille-restart 1
.Xr bastille-service 1
.Xr bastille-setup 1
.Xr bastille-start 1
.Xr bastille-stop 1
.Xr bastille-sysrc 1
.Xr bastille-tags 1
.Xr bastille-top 1
.Xr bastille-umount 1
.Xr bastille-update 1
.Xr bastille-upgrade 
.Xr bastille-verify 1
.Xr bastille-zfs 1